# Four User Stories

## User 1: The Solo Hiker
This user is going on a hike alone. They estimate the hike will take them about 4 hours (from leaving home to returning). The user sets an alert timer for 6 hours to give themselves a little extra time. In the Notes field, the user puts the name of the trail they plan to hike and their starting point. As they hike, the app periodically saves their current location. If the hiker does not return home in 6 hours, the app will send their last saved location to their contacts alert list. If the hiker is lost or injured, a rescue team will be able to find them before dark.

## User 2: The First Dater
This user is going on a date with a person they met through a dating app. They have been chatting with their date for a week but have not met in person yet. The plan is for dinner and drinks: the user expects to be done by 11pm. The user goes to the Contacts page and puts two close friends on the alert list. In the alert Notes field, the user puts the name of their date and the restaurant and bar they plan to go to. Then the user sets an alert for 11pm. <br> At 8pm, just before their date arrives, the user feels a little nervous. They go back to the contacts page and texts their current location to one friend with a brief message, but leaves the 11pm alert running. Texting their location gives the user some peace of mind and allows them to relax. The date goes well, and at 10:30pm the user wants to stay out a little later. They go to the app and push the alert time back an hour. At 11:30pm, the user says good night to their date and gets a ride home. When they are back at home, the user turns off the alert and goes to bed.

## User 3: The Traveler
This user is traveling in a new city where they don't know anybody. They want to check out the local nightlife. The user plans to leave their hotel for 3 hours. They set a 4 hour alert and put their sister and a friend on the alert list. After 2 hours out, the user is tired and returns back to the hotel. They disable the alert and go to bed. Their sister and friend never receive a notification, since nothing went wrong.

## User 4: The Road Tripper
This user is moving from California to Texas. They will be driving alone through the desert and many rural areas. The user goes to Settings and sets a default alert time of 9pm. They set the alert to go off at 9pm every day that they are driving. When the user gets to their motel each night, they can disable the alert. One day, their car breaks down on the highway. The user calls AAA, but AAA says it will take 3 hours for a mechanic to reach them. The user goes to the Contacts page to call a friend and send the friend their current location. The friend helps the user find a service station nearby and a place to rest while their car is repaired. That night, at a closer hotel, the user disables the 9pm alert for that day.
