# Out of the Woods App: Accessibility Status and Goals
### End of Sprint 3


## Component Types and Roles
There has slowly been more support in React Native for built-in, universal accessibility options. Using the newest cross-platform accessibilityRole type (built into React Native) helped define component types, particularly the buttons. This has made the app more navigable for more users, on either mobile operating system. It is very important that in this sprint we changed our button components to extend known types so that we could use accessibilityRole, both because of the built-in accessibility support that provides, but more importantly because it's an important accessibility design rule to use commonly-known and recognized component types whenever possible. It is much more difficult for users who cannot get the full information from the app that a developer can (such as seeing the visual layout) to understand some new, custom object type that a developer has invented without an critical reason.<br>
<br>
## Color Contrast
We have improved our color contrast significantly. By streamlining the color scheme and making the screen designs more consistent, we've reduced the opportunity for stray design choices to accidentally impact visual accessibility. Many of our elements, especially buttons, containers, and text-within-buttons, pass the WAI contrast checks (see Docs/Sprint3 for screenshot results). There is still more to do: Our bottom navigation bar has too low contrast to tell which tabs are highlighted, and text entry fields in the Login, Register, and Settings screens have a low-contrast white-on-beige design. The text field contrast issues, however, are slightly mitigated by their tab-accessible functionality and alt-text descriptions.<br>
<br>
## Alt Text
We have added alt text to as many elements as possible, as well as further custom cross-platform React Native accessibility support such as accessibilityLabel, accessibilityHint, and accessibilityState. Due to the difficult of testing the screen reader on the Expo Snack platform, we have not been able to see quite how the accessibility-specific prompts conflict with the regular text and field labels, and in which order they fire. We have also not seen any hover effect, although that does not necessarily indicate an alt-text problem on mobile apps. <br>
<br>
## Keyboard Navigation
Keyboard navigation is still our largest accessibility weakness. All elements on every page should be accessible and usable by only the Tab (and Shift-Tab) and Return keys, if that is what a user wants to use. Nothing should require a touch or even a mouse click. We added a React Native tag for accessible={true} to each element that should be selectable on a page. We have implemented this option in many elements in each screen, but have not yet been able to make the entire app keyboard-navigable. For example, on the Login and Register screens, a user can easily use Tab and Shift-Tab to get around the text input fields and the submit button in a logical order, forwards and backward. However, to get *into* the text field container in the first place, the user still needs to click inside the screen once. Additionally, we've been able to keep the onscreen keyboard automatically focused around the text fields while a user is typing, but it does not instantly disappear when the user moves focus to the button below. This makes it difficult, for example, for a visually-active user to see that they have the button selected and ready to click, without hearing the alt text prompt. We have tried several different functions to correct this but are still looking for the best case. The goal should be for the onscreen keyboard to appear when a user has focus on a text input field and hide when a user has focus on a button. The Settings page needs an accessible scroll option, since (properly!) it is the only page that requires more than one screen-dimension, and in the next sprint we need to implement a scroll for the new Contacts page as well.<br>
<br>
One extremely good development was that we were able to get to the bottom navigation menu, and appropriately cycle through and highlight the selected tabs, with keyboard only. We could get in and out of the bottom navigation menu from a container inside the page, and highlight the selected containers/tabs as we went around. We could do this even when we started "inside" a page. However, even though we only used accessibility tags that are common to both iOS and Android, this function only works on Android at the moment. It also seems we may need to implement a double-click on the page tab icons, as a single Return press did not always go to the desired page. We may also need a double-tap or a custom option to fire if accessibility is set for the Login and Register submit buttons. The top navigation bar is not a clickable link at the moment - though this is the case for all users regardless of ability, it would be a useful additional feature to click the top header and go to the Home page, and much easier for a screen-reading user to get to rather than cycling through potentially many fields to get to the Home tab on the bottom navigation bar. Though the bottom bar has seen great progress, we must state again that it is difficult to start navigating the app from the logical start of a page without at least one touch event or mouse click.<br>
<br>
## Sprint 4 Accessibility Priorities
The number-one priority is to finish implementing complete keyboard-navigability through the app. We emphasize this is not only about the _ability_ to reach each element, but also about having a _logical_ order through the page, something that makes sense to a user who cannot see the visual layout of the screen, respectful of hierarchy and conscious of users working at different speeds and with different priorities. Using a screen reader or a keyboard should **not** slow down a user's experience at all compared to a user who can see, touch, and click. We should test all potential paths through the app, using our User Stories as reference for different use cases. We also need to test the screen reader functions and _all_ alt text, hints, labels, etc. with the native TalkBack and VoiceOver accessibility settings enabled on actual Android and iOS phones, respectively. 

Looking ahead to Sprint 5, we will want to explore the option to have different levels of voice alerts for different selected states **based on the Out of the Woods goals and logic**.  This is tricky at the moment, because to create more-nuanced event and accessibility states in React Native today would require committing to one mobile platform over another, and it has been a central goal of this project from the beginning to make this app work for every user, on any platform. We are hopeful, however, that these options will change. Awareness of web and mobile accessibility needs is growing rapidly, and companies are taking note. In just the last twelve months React Native has dramatically improved their accessibility functionality. We expect this pace of development to continue, and hope the general trend toward cross-platform accessibility support continues.<br>
<br>
We have a lot more to do! Disabled users are an important part of our user base and this app is extra valuable to them. We cannot let them down. As we near our first public release date, we must ensure this app is accessible at minimum by full keyboard navigation and voice prompts. These are the most fundamental accessibility controls that every user expects to be available (and quite reasonably so), for to any web or mobile app made in the last five years.<br>


